# Laptop-sales_dataset Analysis (Interactive Dashboard creation using Power BI)
## Project Objective
Evaluate the sales performance of various laptop brands and models. Identify market share distribution among different laptop companies. Examine trends in laptop sales, including the average sale value, total number of laptops sold, and sales across different operating systems in February 2025.

## Dataset Used
- <a href ="https://github.com/EboseAbhu1/Laptop-sales_dataset/blob/main/Laptop_Data.xlsx">Dataset</a>

## Questions (KPIs)
- The total revenue generated by each laptop brand.
- The overall revenue from laptop sales for February 2025.
- The average revenue per laptop sold.
- The total number of laptops sold during the period.
- The revenue and percentage share of different laptop category Typename
- The number of laptops sold with different RAM configurations.
- Maximum and Minimum Laptop Inches
- Dashboard Interaction - <a href="https://github.com/EboseAbhu1/Laptop-sales_dataset/blob/main/Laptop_Dataset.pdf" > View Dashboard</a>

## Process 
- Loaded data on Microsoft Excel, created another sheet and loaded data to be cleaned
- Cleaning processes used; Removing duplicates, space lines, changing data formats, aligned data, checked for misspelled words
- Sort and filter data
- Analysed the data and export to Power BI
- Importing excel file in Power Bi, transform data and created report

## Dashboard
https://github.com/EboseAbhu1/Laptop-sales_dataset/blob/main/Laptop_Dataset.pdf

## Insights
- Top companies/brands by sales: Dell ($18.18M), Lenovo ($16.84M), HP ($15.22M), Asus ($9.2M), MSI ($4.87M)
- Market Share by Type: Notebook: 55.81%, Gaming: 15.93%, Ultrabook: 14.99%, 2 in 1 Convertible: 9.11%, Workstation: 1.88%, Netbook: 0.27%
- Most common RAM sold: 8GB (601 units), 4GB (368 units), 16GB (194 units).
- Least common RAM sold: 64GB (1 unit), 24GB (3 units), 32GB (17 units).

 ## Final Conclusion
 The laptop market is expected to continue its growth in the next quarter. Here are some key projections:
- Revenue Growth: The global laptop market is projected to reach $60.6 billion in 2025, with an annual growth rate of 2.80% from 2025 to 2029.
- Market Trends: The demand for thin and lightweight models with long battery life is expected to drive sales.
- Units: Notebook PC demand is high and more production will bring in more sales and profits.



